a new United Nations Le mechanism for
monitoring Aid routes into Gaza will be
operational in a matter of days Sr Cog
the un's senior humanitarian and
reconstruction coordinator for Gaza said
that initially the mechanism will
monitor Aid routes via Cyprus and Jordan
and shortly after begin monitoring Aid
entering through Egypt I've informed the
government of Israel on the
operationalization of the mechanism as
per the resolution a database and
notification system will go online for
all cargo destined for Gaza along supply
routes the approval for the placement of
international monitors at Crossings
inspection and Supply points has been
requested from relevant authorities
verification and monitoring inside Gaza
will commence as soon as possible it's
been over 200 days since Israel's war on
Gaza began some council members said
it's regrettable it has taken so long
and we are still disc
ing access to basic
needs basic human
needs such as access to
food water and sanitation Cog said she
expects Israel to help facilitate the
new Aid routes but the reality on the
ground right now is much different it
remains extremely difficult to secure
safe and unimpeded access for for
humanitarian movements to Northern Gaza
ochra reports that as of today more than
one-third of Aid missions to the North
in April were denied or impeded by
Israeli authorities secret Cog also said
that the next step may be for Aid trucks
to be inspected on the Palestinian side
of the Rafa border that would be a major
change from how it's done now but it's
unclear how it would be implemented if
Israel would be involved or if Israel
would even agree to it Cog also said
that her office in Gaza should be
operational in the next few weeks
Gabriel zando Al jaaz at the United
Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz